{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red143\green32\blue25;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red174\green0\blue20;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl384\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 1 
\b0 \cf4 \strokec4 And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he was set, his disciples came unto him:\

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
2 
\b0 \cf4 \strokec4 And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying,\

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
3 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Blessed 
\i are
\i0  the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
4 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Blessed 
\i are
\i0  they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
5 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Blessed 
\i are
\i0  the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
6 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Blessed 
\i are
\i0  they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
7 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Blessed 
\i are
\i0  the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
8 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Blessed 
\i are
\i0  the pure in heart: for they shall see God.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
9 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Blessed 
\i are
\i0  the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
10 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Blessed 
\i are
\i0  they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
11 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Blessed are ye, when 
\i men
\i0  shall revile you, and persecute 
\i you
\i0 , and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
12 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great 
\i is
\i0  your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
13 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
14 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
15 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
16 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
17 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
18 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
19 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach 
\i them
\i0 , the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
20 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed 
\i the righteousness
\i0  of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
21 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment:\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
22 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment: and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council: but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
23 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee;\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
24 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
25 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him; lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
26 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Verily I say unto thee, Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
27 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery:\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
28 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
29 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast 
\i it
\i0  from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not 
\i that
\i0  thy whole body should be cast into hell.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
30 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast 
\i it
\i0  from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not 
\i that
\i0  thy whole body should be cast into hell.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
31 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 It hath been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement:\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
32 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 But I say unto you, That whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced committeth adultery.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
33 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Again, ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths:\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
34 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne:\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
35 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
36 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
37 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
38 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth:\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
39 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
40 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have 
\i thy
\i0  cloke also.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
41 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
42 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
43 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
44 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you;\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
45 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
46 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same?\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
47 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more 
\i than others
\i0 ? do not even the publicans so?\cf4 \strokec4 \

\b \cf2 \strokec2 \
48 
\b0 \cf5 \strokec5 Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.\cf4 \strokec4 \
}